Remember that relationships can create a link between two tables.
So far you looked at a unidirectional many to one relationship where the foreign key lives inside of
the child table.
In this lesson, you will define a bidirectional one to many relationship.
So here is my task.
I want to query Harry's grades right now in our app.
The way we have it set up is there's a uni directional many to one relationship.
So if I want to query Harry's grade, I can do it directly from the grade table.
But I can't do anything.
I cannot access anything from the student table.
That's why we need to set up a bidirectional one to many relationship, because it's going to provide
navigational access from both sides.
So on the child side, we say there is a many to one relationship.
Many grades belong to one student.
And on the parent side, we say there is a one to many relationship.
One student is associated with many grades, and just like that, we have a bidirectional relationship.
Now, another thing in this case, the owner of the relationship is the one who is managing the foreign
key column.
So because the grade table is the owner of the relationship on the other side, we need to put the mapped
by parameter.
What mapped by does is it tell spring JPA?
Hey, the other table is the owner of this relationship, so please don't create another join table
or anything.
We'll talk about join tables later.
But as a rule of thumb but mapped by goes on the side that isn't the owner of the relationship.
So in order for this relationship to be bidirectional from the child side, we're saying that many grades
belong to one student.
And now from the parent side.
We need to specify that one student associates with many grades, so we're going to have a one to many
relationship between one student and a list of grades.
But that's not enough.
Now we need to tell Spring JPA.
The relationship is already being mapped by the owner of this relationship, the one that's managing
the foreign column, which binds our two tables together.
If you don't put mapped by if I were to view the H two console right now, this is what we would have.
Spring is going to create a join table in an attempt to map the relationship.
We absolutely do not want that.
We want to set map to buy equal to the property that maps the relationship.
And make sure the string is an exact match.
And by doing that, we're instructing JPA do not create another joint table.
The relationship is already being mapped over here.
Perfect.
Now we have navigational access from both sides, and we do get some errors because now the complete
constructor is going to expect for parameters.
So here's what we'll do.
Back over to my student entity.
Instead of an all ARGs constructor, we're going to say required args constructor.
We want a constructor that only updates a certain number of fields.
Which fields is it going to update?
Well, the ones that are non null.
So we're going to mark this field as non null.
And this one as well.
I can go back here and remove all the IDs because they will be auto generated.
So now every time we create a new student object, it's going to update these two fields with these
two parameters.
The ID at first is going to be null, but that's fine because it will eventually be auto generated and
we don't care about this being null right now.
As our opera runs, our four students will get submitted.
So let's query them.
I'll copy this because it will prompt me to reconnect.
And it's not even doing that.
So.
Oh.
Do we have an error of some sort?
Let's see.
The constructor.
Student Long string local date.
And it seems to be confused.
So what I'm going to do is just restart the app.
Okay.
Much better now.
Here we can see our four students are submitted.
Let's make a get request from Postman and Access the student with an ID of one.
And we see that now the student has a grades property so as get student returns back this record as
an object.
All four fields are serialized into JSON before being returned to the consumer.
This one gets converted into a JSON array, but right now Harry doesn't have any grades, so the array
is empty.
Looking good so far.
But unfortunately when we end up returning a student entity and then serializing all of its fields into
JSON properties, we cannot allow the list of entities to be part of the serialization process.
So we have to put JSON ignore over here.
We don't want this to be part of the JSON that gets sent back and I'll explain why very soon.
What I'm going to do now is create a temporary method inside of the student service implementation.
And I'm just going to call this method.
Print grids.
It's going to receive a student entity.
And it's just going to loop through every single grade from the grades list.
And for every grade that we iterate through, we're going to print the score, grade dot, get score.
All right.
And as we retrieve a student.
We're just going to call.
Print grades.
It's going to perform the query twice for now.
But whatever this method is temporary, we're going to be deleting it very soon.
Now I'm going to go back and save two grades for Harry.
I'll give Harry one A-plus.
And I'll give him a D-plus.
Let's refresh.
See if everything is working properly.
It is.
Harry has an A+ and a D plus.
I've got four students, two grades, all belonging to Harry.
So if I query Harry.
And so the first thing you'll notice is that as Spring Boot was returning the student entity, it ignored
the grades field during the serialization process.
And now from here I can see that all of Henry's grades were printed.
So over here we were actually able to access all of the grades from the student entity, from the parent
side.
Okay.
But just because we now have two way access, it doesn't mean that now I'm going to go start setting
up another handler method in the student controller that says Get the students grades.
I'm already accessing the grade data from the greater repository and I'm satisfied with that.
So I'm going to go back to the student service implementation and delete this method.
It was just to show you that now we have navigational access from both sides.
And we're good.
The reason we made the relationship bi directional is because we have a very big bug in our app right
now.
We will address that bug in the next video.
Don't worry about it for now.
But before we wrap up, I want to talk about why I put this JSON ignore field.
Just follow for now.
Don't do what I'm doing inside the command line.
Runner.
I'm going to paste in the following grade.
Um.
Let's just auto wire.
Great repository.
Let's go to the H two database.
And there you go.
Now, if I remove Jason, ignore.
And I'm going to try to query Harry Potter.
The request gets aborted.
We can't really tell what's happening here.
So what I'm going to do is make this same get request from the terminal.
So I'm going to say Curl.
And copy this path.
All right.
And what is all this junk?
Let's crawl all the way to the top.
And the reason why we get this recursive loop is because as spring boot tries to serialize every field
into a JSON property, it starts with the ID.
Okay, that's fine.
Followed by the name and then the birth date.
And once we get to grades, every grade entity references a student.
So now it starts going in a loop.
The grades contains a student, starts serializing the student again data and then you get this loop
that never ends.
So as we send back the student, we need to tell Spring Boot.
As you're serializing every single field into a JSON property, please just ignore this one.
We don't want to send it back.
It's troublesome.
So to recap, you set up a bidirectional one to many relationship.
So on the child side we say there is a many to one relationship.
Many grades belong to one student, and on the parent side we say there is a one to many relationship.
One student is associated with many grades, and just like that, we have navigational access from both
sides.